---
pubDate: 2025-04-12
---

##### [The 2025 AI Index Report | Stanford HAI](https://hai.stanford.edu/ai-index/2025-ai-index-report)
##### [Is not writing tests unprofessional?](https://matthiasnoback.nl/2019/09/is-not-writing-tests-unprofessional/)
##### [The Best Programmers I Know | Matthias Endler by Matthias Endler](https://endler.dev/2025/best-programmers/)

- Read the Reference
- Don’t go to Stack Overflow, don’t ask the LLM, don’t guess, just go straight to the source. Oftentimes, it’s surprisingly accessible and well-written
- Know Your Tools Really Well
- For example, if you are a backend engineer and you make heavy use of Kafka, I expect you to know a lot about Kafka – not just things you read on Reddit. At least that’s what I expect if you want to be one of the best engineers
- Read The Error Message
- Turns out, if you just sit and meditate about the error message, it starts to speak to you
- Break Down Problems
- you work as a professional developer, that is the bulk of the work you get paid to do: breaking down problems. If you do it right, it will feel like cheating: you just solve simple problems until you’re done.
- Don’t Be Afraid To Get Your Hands Dirty
- Before you know it, they become the go-to person in the team for whatever they touched. Mostly because they were the only ones who were not afraid to touch it in the first place.
- Always Help Others
- A related point. Great engineers are in high demand and are always busy, but they always try to help. That’s because they are naturally curious and their supportive mind is what made them great engineers in the first place. It’s a sheer joy to have them on your team, because they are problem solvers.
- Write
- Most awesome engineers are well-spoken and happy to share knowledge.The best have some outlet for their thoughts: blogs, talks, open source, or a combination of those.
- Never Stop Learning
- Have Patience
- You need patience with computers and humans. Especially with yourself
- Never Blame the Computer
- The best keep digging until they find the reason. They might not find the reason immediately, they might never find it, but they never blame external circumstances.
- Don’t Be Afraid to Say “I Don’t Know”
