---
pubDate: 2025-04-13
---

##### [CaMeL offers a promising new direction for mitigating prompt injection attacks by Simon Willison](https://simonwillison.net/2025/Apr/11/camel/)

- So, are prompt injections solved now?
- No, prompt injection attacks are not fully solved. While CaMeL significantly improves the security of LLM agents against prompt injection attacks and allows for fine-grained policy enforcement, it is not without limitations.
- Importantly, CaMeL suffers from users needing to codify and specify
security policies and maintain them. CaMeL also comes with a user burden. At the same time, it is well known that balancing security with user experience, especially with de-classification and user fatigue, is challenging
- CaMeL really does represent a promising path forward though: the first credible prompt injection mitigation I’ve seen that doesn’t just throw more AI at the problem and instead leans on tried-and-proven concepts from security engineering, like capabilities and data flow analysis.

##### [How Meta is Using a New Metric for Developers: Diff Authoring Time](https://www.infoq.com/news/2025/04/meta-diff-authoring-time/)

- Diff Authoring Time (DAT)
- By tracking the time from the initiation of a code change to its submission, DAT offers insights into the efficiency of the development process and helps identify areas for improvement.
- For instance, DAT has been instrumental in evaluating the impact of introducing a type-safe mocking framework in Hack, leading to a 14% improvement in authoring time. Additionally, the development of automatic memoization in the React compiler resulted in a 33% improvement, and efforts to promote code sharing have saved thousands of DAT hours annually, achieving over a 50% improvement. ​

##### [Maximizing Your Delta Scan Performance in DuckDB by Sam Ansmink](https://duckdb.org/2025/03/21/maximizing-your-delta-scan-performance.html)