---
pubDate: 2025-04-03
---

##### [AI Agents: Less Capability, More Reliability, Please](https://www.sergey.fyi/articles/reliability-vs-capability)
##### [The Power of Asymmetric Experiments @ Meta - Analytics at Meta - Medium by Analytics at Meta](https://medium.com/@AnalyticsAtMeta/the-power-of-asymmetric-experiments-meta-8a8030d68c31)

- Asymmetric experiments make sense when (1) you don’t need to run many experiments in parallel, (2) recruiting people for the experiment is cheap, and (3) running the test intervention is expensive
- Asymmetric experiments make sense when your need for concurrent experiment capacity is low*.
- The test intervention is expensive. Asymmetric experiments have a smaller test group. This makes asymmetric experiments appealing when the cost of the test intervention is high. For example, if the test intervention has the possibility of negatively impacting the user experience, or would require an increase in compute costs.

##### [Troubleshooting: The Skill That Never Goes Obsolete](https://autodidacts.io/troubleshooting/)

- It’s easy to get lost in reactive problem whack-a-mole without stopping to think: what’s the real cause of this issue? What, exactly, is going on here?
- Writers are fond of saying that “writing is thinking”. Here are two ways I use writing as a troubleshooting tool:


Rubber duck debugging like a pro: I can often solve my problem by drafting a forum post without posting it. The effort required to articulate the salient details of the system and the problem, without looking dumb, is higher than the effort I have usually put in at the point I decide I need help. Corollary: making a forum post without sounding like I haven’t done my homework also tends to put me over my time/energy budget for solving a seemingly-trivial problem.


Behold the trail of crumbs: I find that writing and diagramming, while helpful for many troubleshooting projects, are essential for multi-session troubleshooting projects. I overestimate how much I will remember about the context, as well as how soon I will get around to continuing the project. A troubleshooting notes file, no matter how obvious or incomplete the information in it seems at the time I write it, leaves a trail of crumbs that I can follow next time. (I have often repeated, verbatim, an entire troubleshooting process, found the problem — and then remembered I troubleshot the exact system, and arrived at the same conclusion, years ago; but there was some hiccup, and I failed to order or install the new part.)
