---
pubDate: 2025-02-23
---

##### [Towards composable data platforms — Jack Vanlightly by Jack Vanlightly](https://jack-vanlightly.com/blog/2025/2/17/towards-composable-data-platforms)

- The OTFs introduce a new abstraction layer that can be used to virtualize table storage. The key is that it allows for the separation of data from metadata and shared storage from compute. Through metadata, one table can appear in two data platforms, without data copying. To avoid overloading data virtualization anymore, I will use the term Table Virtualization.
- The Modern Data Stack (MDS) failed to sustain itself. Few wanted to compose a data architecture from 10-15 different vendors. People want to choose a small number of trusted vendors, and they want them to work together without a lot of toil and headaches.

##### [Common pitfalls when building generative AI applications by Chip Huyen](https://huyenchip.com/2025/01/16/ai-engineering-pitfalls.html)

- Use generative AI when you don't need generative AI
- Start too complex

Examples of this pitfall:


  Use an agentic framework when direct API calls work.
  Agonize over what vector database to use when a simple term-based retrieval solution (that doesn’t require a vectordb) works.
  Insist on finetuning when prompting works.
  Use semantic caching.
- Forgo human evaluation

To automatically evaluate AI applications, many teams opt for the AI-as-a-judge (also called LLM-as-a-judge) approach — using AI models to evaluate AI outputs. A common pitfall is forgoing human evaluation to rely entirely on AI judges.
