---
pubDate: 2025-05-27
---

##### [Making Sense of Apache Iceberg Statistics - Yuval Yogev - Medium by Yuval Yogev](https://medium.com/@yogevyuval/making-sense-of-apache-iceberg-statistics-5a114d8e90d1)

- data-level (what’s inside the files) and metadata-level (how the files are organized)
- Theta sketch — a probabilistic data structure for estimating NDV (number of distinct values) for each column.

##### [Grey box and outcome driven engineering](https://dlthub.com/blog/grey-box)

- But how can you trust code you haven't reviewed?" I hear the traditionalists cry.Simple: I don't trust the code. I trust the verification process.
- In contrast, the AI-assisted Grey Box paradigm completely separates validation from implementation. You define what correctness looks like through expected outcomes and verification criteria, but delegate both test implementation and solution implementation to AI systems
- There are still times when opening the box makes sense:When verification fails in unexpected waysWhen you need to modify the implementation for a new use caseWhen you're curious about how something worksWhen you need to teach others

##### [14 Advanced Python Features](https://blog.edward-li.com/tech/advanced-python-features/)

- Quick bonus trick: As you probably saw, Python also has support for String Literals. These help assert that only specific string values can be passed to a parameter, giving you even more type safety. Think of them like a lightweight form of Enums!
- type Vector = list[float]
- That’s where Protocols come in. Protocols (also known as Structural Subtyping) are typing classes in Python defining the structure or behavior that classes can follow without the use of interfaces or inheritance.
